# thepathmaker

Written and tested on Ubuntu 22.04.

thepathmaker takes in a stippled image (produced by thestippler) and outputs an image showing the shortest path that connects all these stipples. The path solves (approximately) the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), that is, it is the shortest possible route that visits each city (stipple point) and returns to the origin city (stipple point). At some point, somebody figured out that solving the TSP on a stippled image creates a cool effect, mainly, because there is supposed to be no intersection. That's how "TSP art" was born.

Now, the crux of the problem is the (approximate) solution of the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) given a set of points (in our case, a whole bunch of stipples). I didn't code that part (it's a tough one) but the guys at [Concorde TSP Solver did](http://www.math.uwaterloo.ca/tsp/concorde.html), and very well. Linkern is an implementation of the Chained-Lin-Kernighan heuristic for the TSP. The Path Maker uses the cycle/tour generated by linkern to produce the output image.

To create linkern:

tar xvf co031219.tar, cd concorde, ./configure, and make.

To create thepathmaker:

compile the code in directory "thepathmaker" using "make -f Makefile_g/Makefile_O"

compile the code in directory "thepathmaker/main" using "make"

Test cases are given in the "test" directory.

What you would typically do is to run thestippler on your input photograph (or image). This creates a file called "sample.tsp" that contains the stipples. Then, you execute "./linkern.sh". That creates a file called "sample.cyc". Finally, you run thepathmaker to get your rendered image (should be "output_image.png" unless you have changed the input file "thepathmaker_input.txt").

Info about thepathmaker (theory behind it and how to use it) can be found here:

[Painting Software - The Path Maker](https://3dstereophoto.blogspot.com/2019/04/painting-software-path-maker.html)

Dependencies (check the Makefiles):

"common" repo

# Notes

Because Concorde can not be used for commercial purposes (actually, it's supposed to be used for academic research only), thepathmaker cannot be used for commercial purposes either.
